terminal/become-a-terminal-pro.md, before:

### Become a Terminal Pro ##

#### System Info - Os, CPU, GPU

     lsb_release -a    #print distribution specific info
     nproc - display number of cores in a CPU
     cat /proc/cpuinfo | grep processor | wc -l #show no. of cpu 
     lscpu  #show cpu architecture 
     lspci #list all pci connections
     lspci | grep VGA #show graphic card details 
     lspci -v -s 00:02.0 #show graphic card details
     sudo dmidecode -t 16 #maximum ram supported & available slots
     sudo lshw -C memory  #all hardware memory info

              
#### JOBS

    &       - run a job in background
    jobs -l - list jobs will PID
    fg, bg  - switch jobs from background to foreground
    disown  - detach a process from terminal
    nohup   - ignore SIGHUP signal sent by terminal
    ps -ef  - list all process


#### awk - programming language - pattern scanning and processing language

    ls -l | awk '{ print $5  }'
    ls -l | awk '{ print $2, '\t', $1  }'
    awk 'BEGIN { print "Last \t Job"  } { print $2, '\t', $4  }'
    cat test.txt | awk '{print NR, NF, $0 }'
    ls -l | awk '{ if ( NF >= 9  ) { print $9  }  }'


#### sed
    
    sed -n 5p file          #print line 5 from file
    sed -n '5,10p' file     #print 5 to 10 lines 
    sed -i '$ d' foo.txt    #delete last line of file
    

#### grep
     
     grep -rl "django" /path/to/dir/  # search for string in all files
     grep -v 'django'  # grep for non matching lines
     ps -ef | grep '[c]elery'    #grep ps without grep


#### usb

     #write permissions for pendrive
     sudo mount -o remount,rw '/media/SGTL MSCN'


#### Others

     du -hs #show human readable summary of disk usage
     top -> 1 - show cpu core usage
     alias ls='ls -a'

     sudo passwd #set a single char password 
     wc -L file  #line which is max length in file
     head -n -1 foo.txt #show foo.txt without last line

     split -b 1024 big_file small_file_prefix
     split -l 1000 big_file small_file_prefix

Commit message:

set priority for jobs unix

terminal/become-a-terminal-pro.md, after:

### Become a Terminal Pro ##

#### System Info - Os, CPU, GPU

     lsb_release -a    #print distribution specific info
     nproc - display number of cores in a CPU
     cat /proc/cpuinfo | grep processor | wc -l #show no. of cpu 
     lscpu  #show cpu architecture 
     lspci #list all pci connections
     lspci | grep VGA #show graphic card details 
     lspci -v -s 00:02.0 #show graphic card details
     sudo dmidecode -t 16 #maximum ram supported & available slots
     sudo lshw -C memory  #all hardware memory info

              
#### JOBS

    &       - run a job in background
    jobs -l - list jobs will PID
    fg, bg  - switch jobs from background to foreground
    disown  - detach a process from terminal
    nohup   - ignore SIGHUP signal sent by terminal
    ps -ef  - list all process
    nice -n 19 command - run this command with lowest priority


#### awk - programming language - pattern scanning and processing language

    ls -l | awk '{ print $5  }'
    ls -l | awk '{ print $2, '\t', $1  }'
    awk 'BEGIN { print "Last \t Job"  } { print $2, '\t', $4  }'
    cat test.txt | awk '{print NR, NF, $0 }'
    ls -l | awk '{ if ( NF >= 9  ) { print $9  }  }'


#### sed
    
    sed -n 5p file          #print line 5 from file
    sed -n '5,10p' file     #print 5 to 10 lines 
    sed -i '$ d' foo.txt    #delete last line of file
    

#### grep
     
     grep -rl "django" /path/to/dir/  # search for string in all files
     grep -v 'django'  # grep for non matching lines
     ps -ef | grep '[c]elery'    #grep ps without grep


#### usb

     #write permissions for pendrive
     sudo mount -o remount,rw '/media/SGTL MSCN'


#### Others

     du -hs #show human readable summary of disk usage
     top -> 1 - show cpu core usage
     alias ls='ls -a'

     sudo passwd #set a single char password 
     wc -L file  #line which is max length in file
     head -n -1 foo.txt #show foo.txt without last line

     split -b 1024 big_file small_file_prefix
     split -l 1000 big_file small_file_prefix
